---
layout: pagedefault
title: "Reflections"
permalink: /reflections
---
<div class="page_title"><h3>Project Reflections</h3></div>
__Refllecting on Visualizing Caribbean Literature__


___Luam Stephenson___  
--------
 The past year with Create Caribbean has been an extremely enriching experience for me. It is one I will never regret, but I also wish I did some things differently. I learnt about myself, about life, about the Caribbean and my island Dominica, and not only digital humanities but other subjects as well.

Being an intern at Create and a student of Dominica State College during the pandemic really taught me the importance of the most basic self care. I barely left my room over the span of a year and I had not seen how detrimental it was to me at the time. Not leaving my house meant gradually I stopped eating on time, getting fresh air, and talking to my friends often. Going into working with Create I had expected to be continuously working and to be fine doing so. When we started working on the Visual Caribbean Literature project, I expected to have a smooth continuous workflow. Some of the work was abit more difficult to do alone than I expected. Going outside is the one thing I wish I had done differently, I think if I had focused on figuring out a way I could do that, ultimately the troubles I faced with finding motivation would have not have been. 

Although I faced these challenges with myself the year was one with many positives and other learning experiences. During the experience of working on the Visual Caribbean Literature project, I learnt many great lessons. For one, myself and the other interns learnt a lot through the readings about digital humanities. The readings, though sometimes difficult to understand, helped to break down what digital humanists do and why. While working on the project and working on the spreadsheet helped me to learn about the authors from the Caribbean, and how their works are published. I learnt a lot through my own individual project, and also from listening to the individual projects my peers made. One thing I found interesting while going through the process was learning to use digital humanities tools. I was able to get a grasp on a few like Twine and ArcGIS, and zotero and hypothesis which I use frequently for school work now. I especially enjoyed the times we were able to meet at create as a group or as just two to three people. I also enjoyed myself at other group meetings like the planned trip to the north we went on and the CREAD surveys.

Coming out from working on the project to working at Create and Code was another great experience. I remember wanting to go to create and code when I was in high school, and I remember hearing the great reviews from students who had gone. I am happy that being a teaching assistant I was exposed to the content that is taught at create and code. I enjoyed being a teaching assistant and trying my best to help out the teachers by making posts, notes, and tutorials. However, the part I enjoyed most about being a teaching assistant was teaching the gigabytes when a teacher was absent. The trips we went on were great bonus experiences. 

I am excited to continue being an intern at Create Caribbean and to be a Create and Code teacher this new academic year. I am excited to try again, and learn more and to apply the lessons I learnt from all the mistakes I made. 



___Mckel Ferrol___  
--------
Working on the Digital Humanities project which was being issued by Create Caribbean was a very eventful and demanding experience. Trying to balance doing school work and working on the project was hard at first but after a while, I got accustomed and adapted to doing both. Another difficult task was trying to keep up with the deadline Dr. Esprit set for us. But with perseverance and putting enough hours into doing the work I was able to keep on track with the deadlines. 

Firstly, we had to enter books found by Caribbean authors via the internet into a management software called Zotero. Dr. Esprit separated the task between the interns from the 1800s to the present. I was given the years 1991-2000. Doing this was relatively easy as all I had to do was find books either on Amazon, Good reads, or Worldcat and enter them into Zotero. I found that using Worldcat was the easiest and most efficient way of finding books from a particular author. In this section of the intern project, I learned that you will have to keep track of all the books you and others have collected. I also learned that I need to have good communication with the other interns to see what they added and what they needed help with.

Secondly, the next step in the project was working on a spreadsheet with all the books we collected from Zotero. Same as Zotero we were given different columns to find information that was not already there. For my first task, I had to find Wikipedia links of all the authors that were in the spreadsheet. At first, I was going quite slow when adding the Wikipedia links but after some time it got easier and I was able to do the work faster. After I completed getting all the links I had to go through them again and make sure that all the links were correct. An easy way for me to check this was to see if the author on the Wikipedia link had a book that was on the spreadsheet. After I was done fact-checking I was assigned to help the other interns with their sections on the spreadsheet. Afterward, when the project was entering its final stages we were given sections of the spreadsheet to go through and start fact-checking all the information which was there, as well as adding any information which was not present. For this part, I mainly used Worldcat, Amazon, and Goodreads. This section of the project was very tiring and repetitive. Frankly, I couldn’t wait to get this part over and done with so I can move on to something hopefully more entertaining. But despite all my agony throughout this section my information gathering and analysis skills were improved. I also learned that I needed to make sure that I entered the information in a specific way and unified it or else I would have needed to go through and change everything.  

Finally, I was assigned to add some of the authors from the spreadsheet into a VCL spreadsheet, then onto their respective web pages. I was assigned 10 authors including, Paule Marshall, Reinaldo Arenas, Robert Antoni, Roberto Fernandez Retamar, Roger Mais, Samuel Selvon, Simeone Schwarz-Bart, Una Marson, V.S. Naipaul, and Velma Pollard. This part was way more exciting than working with the spreadsheet because I had the chance to be working with HTML, which is the main language used in making web pages. Some of the authors were a lot easier to add to the web page than others. One of the challenging authors was V.S. Naipaul because he had quite a lot of books to be added, but non the less it was still quite an interesting experience. 



___ ___  
--------
Initially, I had very little knowledge about Caribbean Literature. I only knew the basics seeing that I did literature in high school. In order to collect information for this project, lots of research, reading, data entry and fact checking had to be done. I had never done this type of research so it was a new experience. At times, this would be calming and at other times it would be frustrating. Doing this gave me skills such as data entry and collection skills and research skills. Some resources I used when working on the main project and my individual project were arcgis, zotero, worldcat, goodreads and amazon. 
I feel like these projects are exceptional and informative. I like the fact that it breaks down each book into different categories and presents them in a captivating manner. Additionally, this allows for individuals to be explorative and read works from the different Caribbean countries. The most satisfying part was watching everything come together perfectly at the end. 
When working, I had no idea whether I was right or wrong. For the main project I was a part of the research team so my main focus was finding accurate information and entering it into the spreadsheet. For my main project, I had an idea of what I wanted to do and this ended up changing as I went along. I thought that it would be best to ensure that I had all Information then after this was completed I would work on the presentation. I believe that my project met the standards seeing that it provides the audience with information and presents as an aesthetic. 
One thing someone would notice when reading my project is that I am not a tech savvy individual. Hence the reason I created a timeline and map which mostly includes research. If faced with another project, I would like to improve my time management. Additionally one thing I would set for myself next time is to step outside my comfort zone. This will allow me to become familiar with other tools and allow me to gain even more skills.
